# I feel like I don’t know anything

My past year feels like such a journey. My life has turned upside down since December 2021. I have always tended to experiment with various things in programming, but my problem has always been that I needed to be more consistent. For example, when I was in university, I read about HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, after which I had a class about them. I was familiar with what I had read, but soon we went over everything I had learned and started doing unfamiliar topics. I wouldn’t say I liked revisiting them, but we continued with the classes, which also happened for a few others. My research of various targets of my interest continued from 2017 until 2020, when I finished university. Once I started something, I continued to do it, which lasted from a couple of days to a couple of weeks or months, but no longer. From September 2020 until July 2021, I had done such things on and off, but I did not know what to call them. I was inconsistent with my learning, but I wanted to have one consistent project. However, I always failed because being stuck with one topic felt boring. It was like eating only one food, such as bread or tomatoes, for an extended period.

I landed an internship that lasted for a month in July 2021, after which I started another internship much closer to my house that began in September 2021. During that internship, I heard a lot of praise about my skills, which continued after December when I started working. My curiosity to play with programming concepts continued through the internship and after December. Sometime between December 2021 and March 2022, I opened a directory on my computer to see what I had done, and it touched me. I saw a lot of past effort and felt like I had to do something about it. The problem was that I was consistently doing partial work that felt incomplete. I got an idea to do a project that combines all my partial ideas and allows me to do what I do best: consistently inconsistent. I created a GitHub directory and wrote a short description. I continued to work on random ideas that felt interesting in the following months. I documented some experiences using blogs, textual files, and other methods. Initially, the repository would allow me to share what I had done as a link in the blog. I wanted to create good descriptions of my work using analogies to explain complex topics. One of the problems I had was posting a link to my work so that if I moved files link still worked. Later, I learned I could get a link to commit.

A couple of months later, in August, I read a book on C++ to get used to the syntax. I did this because I had the idea to first read C++ syntax from a book that uses guaranteed best practices to create familiarity. After that, I had the idea to use the solution from the book by figuring out a problem to which I could apply it. The idea was terrific because it allowed me to learn concepts more quickly and remember them. My learning of various topics continued through figuring out the importance of software architecture and making the solution readable. I also saw how important it was to add documentation to explain why the code does what it does, and I started seeing the flaws when the code was missing essential documentation. Research of new fields continued through reading a book on Deliberate Practice, which made a lot of sense thanks to all the work I had previously done. After that book, I was so obsessed with it since it got the better of me, I used it to practice recursion deliberately. I couldn’t use many of the methods the book described, so I applied everything it talked about to the best of my knowledge, using principles I had discovered. That was when I delved into fractals because I somehow learned fractals are recursive structures. Since I knew I could solve them using recursion, what better way to practice than that? It took me around two weeks of reading and thinking about recursion and related mathematical concepts. I did it after all of that effort. That problem was quite uncomfortable initially, but it all started making sense after a while, and my mind just let it sink in. Also, it looks like my mind has a delay of a month, two, or more, almost like it needs a break. Then it suddenly figures out the topic independently but needs to think about related ideas constantly. That journey continued, and recursion practice was in December. I applied all those principles to computer graphics in January and some other topics later in February and March. It has been a year since I started working on that repository, and it feels almost like a separate reality when I work on that. On my way, I documented some of the stuff I have done using GitHub Issues. It is incredibly convenient to add an issue from a phone, computer, laptop, or any other device wherever I am. I use issues as reminders for important ideas that I have had. After this round trip, I’ll conclude the story by saying I don’t know anything. I have covered so much and such a wide variety of literature that isn’t related but somehow is, for example, linear algebra in October. It has been a wild ride, and I will continue moving forward because my work there feels exhilarating.
