# Reflect on my learning journey

Now that I think back, I remember starting with ReactJS and seeing most of the code produced for ReactJS as a black box and magic. I remember reading a server-side rendering article that was strange and alien to me. After some time, I got used to that and could reason about it and what happened. I could also practice and try out various things thanks to my new level of comfort. It was a long process consisting of many repeating attempts to get it working over and over again, and eventually, it became "easy," and I could do it with my hands tied... I remember it took up to a couple of months of effort until the server-side rendering started making sense, Webpack, etc. I have been a subject of massive reading of various subjects. It is possible that an immersive amount of information settles in my mind over time, and it becomes familiar, and I can reason about it, but I don't know. I am trying to figure out what's happening in my mind and how I can use those processes to learn new things as fast as possible. Thinking about these concepts helps.

Only I have an insight of my inner state, everyone outside only has an insight into what I produce, everything else I do is invisible, my words can also be difficult to take in for them, the only way I can make people outside "understand" me is by performing and executing, I believe that we humans are only capable of understanding other people's actions and not words or what they describe, etc...

If I think even more about it, I am currently going through some of the stages I went through while learning ReactJS for the first time. I didn't know much about the javascript world and features like spread operator, maps, etc. However, over time, I got used to them, I got accepted into an internship a year later, and they were amazed at how much I knew. After the internship, I started working. Even though I started working, I still put in the effort alone. However, unfortunately, I have only started documenting my journey a year and a half after, so I don't have documented what I've done, how I started, or all the things I have worked on. Sad :(

If I think more about it, two people can only understand each other over time, effort, focus, attempts, talks, actions, events spent together, and much more. Considering the process of the two people getting to know each other, we could say the same process applies to learning. Whatever it is, math, programming, anything. It takes a long time and continuous effort with focus to polish your relationship. The question is, what are you willing to pay to reach a level of excellency? I believe we could apply the same principles to studying anything new.
